Dear hiring manager,


As a recent PhD graduate pivoting from computational biology to data science for social good, I am excited to apply to the Senior Data Scientist position at Civis Analytics. During my PhD, I gained analytical, coding, and communication skills which I am confident will make me a successful data scientist. Combined with my advocacy and leadership experiences, my background uniquely positions me for the role of data scientist supporting progressive causes at Civis Analytics.


As part of my PhD projects, I wrangled complex metadata from a clinical collaborator, hunted down raw data for a large meta-analysis, and mined high-dimensional datasets to extract biological insights. I practiced reproducible and open science, efforts which were recognized when I was awarded the Junior Research Parasite Award for my 2017 Nature Communications paper. Beyond my projects, I was our lab’s AWS administrator, mentored an undergraduate and Master’s student, and helped my advisor manage key large projects in the lab. I was also a leader in building community in my lab, helping to organize our lab retreat for three years and hosting workshops to share knowledge between lab members. 


Outside of research, I gained crucial communication skills through my training to become a conflict coach for my peers and became deeply passionate and knowledgeable about diversity and equity issues through co-starting my department’s application assistance program and being part of the founding leadership team for MIT’s Graduate Student Council’s new Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee. These experiences fueled my passions and provided deep satisfaction beyond my research, motivating me to find a position where I can apply my technical skills to positively impact society.


As part of Civis Analytics’ political R&D group, I am excited to develop my data science skills while providing useful and actionable insights for progressive organizations that are directly working to improve society. Please let me know if you would like any additional information, and I look forward to hearing back from you.


Sincerely,


Claire Duvallet, PhD
cduvallet@gmail.com
512-636-9548